Orb, stands for Oriented Fast and Rotated Brief.
Fast and brief, are a feature detection in a vector creation algorithm respectively.
And we'll get into the math behind each of these algorithms in the next couple of videos.
Orb, starts by finding special regions in an image called key points.
In general, you can think of a key point as
a small region in an image that's particularly distinctive.
An example is Corners,
where the pixel values sharply change from light to dark.
Here we see an example of orb generated key points in this image of a cat.
We see points around the cat's eyes and at the edges of its facial features.
Once the key points in the image had been located,
orb then calculates a corresponding feature vector for each key point.
The orb algorithm creates feature vectors that only contain ones and zeros.
For this reason, they're called the binary feature vectors.
The sequence of ones and zeros varies according to
what a specific key point and its surrounding pixel area look like.
The vector represents the patterns of intensity around a key point.
So, multiple feature vectors can be used to identify a larger area,
and even a specific object in an image.
Orb, is not only incredibly fast,
but it's also impervious to noise illumination,
and image transformations such as rotations.
I mentioned that orb, stands for Oriented fast and Rotated Brief.
Next, we'll take a closer look at how the fast and brief algorithms work.